1
Aim: To Identify the Conceptual Classes and to develop a domain model with UML  
class diagram for reservation and booking system. 
 
Description 
A class diagram in the Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a type of static structure diagram 
that describes the structure of a system by showing the system's classes, their attributes, and the 
relationships between the classes. 

A class with three sections. 
 
 The upper part holds the name of the class 
 The middle part contains the attributes of the class 
 The bottom part gives the methods or operations the class can take or undertake 
 
In the system design of a system, a number of classes are identified and grouped together in a class 
diagram which helps to determine the statically relations between those objects. With detailed 
modeling, the classes of the conceptual design are often split in a number of subclasses. 

Online Railway Ticket Reservation System: 
Online Railway ticket reservation is very useful nowadays. This is very important to design a good-working 
system software for ticket booking and related transactions. 
 
The Reservation system should contain the following features:  
1. If a passenger wants to reserve ticket(s), firstly, he/she has to log in to the Railway system with valid 
credentials. Then, the passenger has to provide his/her details with the date of the journey, names of the 
passengers and their details, origin station details, destination station details, and the class type of the required 
ticket(s). 
2. The Railway Reservation System will provide the available Train-list, and Seat-availability, via-details. 
3. To book ticket passengers can pay through online/offline mode. After successful payment of the ticket 
fare the System will generate the ticket and PNR no. will be given to the passenger. The System also keeps 
the payment details and sends them to the system Admin. 
4. The Passenger can check PNR status (confirmed, RAC, waiting list) by entering the PNR no. into the 
Reservation system. 
5. The Reservation system should store all train details, fare details (by zone, class, and date wise), PNR no, 
date of trains, etc. This maintenance should be controlled by the Admin.  
6. The System also has refund rules which have a date of reservation, ticket fare, and refundable percentage. 
The passenger can simply cancel the ticket(s) by entering the PNR no and a cancel ticket request. After 
cancelation, the Admin will pass the refundable amount to the System and the System will give the refundable 
amount to the passenger. 
 
Class Diagram:  
 
These diagrams describe the operation and attributes of a class with imposed constraints in the system. In 
this article the classes to be considered are ‘payment’, ‘train’, ‘passenger’, ‘ticket’, ‘railway reservation 
system’, ‘admin’. The description of the classes is given below. 
Class Attributes Processes 
Payment,amount,ticketGeneration 
Train,train code train name frequency,— 
passenger, PAX_id, name,age,sex,login, search Train, modify the 
form, pay charges, book tickets now ticket, cancel tickets 
ticket PNR_no, status, payment type, train code search train, date of journey,, new Ticket, delete tickets 
  
Class Attributes Processes 
railway reservation system ,system ,response 
Admin ID, name formDetails, cancellationForm, 
refundAmt 
 

Result : 
Thus the class diagram of reservation and booking system was created successfully. 
END
2
AIM: 
 
To draw the UML Package Diagram for Ticket Reservation System and Bank Management 
System 
 
HARDWARE REQUIREMENTS 
 
 Intel Pentium Processor 3 
 
PROJECT DESCRIPTION 
 
A package diagram is represented as a folder shown as a large rectangle with a top attached to its upper left corner. 
A package may contain both sub ordinate package and ordinary model elements. All UML models and diagrams 
are organized into package. A package diagram in unified modeling language that depicts the dependencies 
between the packages that make up a model. A Package Diagram (PD) showsa grouping of elements in the OO 
model, and is a Cradle extension to UML. PDs can be used to show groups of classes in Class Diagrams (CDs), 
groups of components or processes in Component Diagrams (CPDs), or groups of processors in Deployment 
Diagrams (DPDs). There are three types of layer. They are a. User interface layer b. Domain layer c. Technical 
services layer 
 
Purpose of Package Diagrams 
 
Package diagrams are used to structure high level system elements. Packages are used for organizing large system 
which contains diagrams, documents and other key deliverables. 
 
 Package Diagram can be used to simplify complex class diagrams, it can group classes into packages. 
 A package is a collection of logically related UML elements. 
 Packages are depicted as file folders and can be used on any of the UML diagrams.